background coronavirus is challenging the global health care system from time to time . the pregnant state with alterations in 
hormone levels and decreased lung volumes due to a gravid uterus and slightly immunocompromised state may predispose patients 
to a more rapidly deteriorating clinical course and can get a greater risk of harm for both the mother and fetus . therefore 
this systematic review was aimed to assess the effect of coronavirus infection sarscov2 merscov and sarscov during 
pregnancy and its possibility of vertical maternalfetal transmission . methods a systematic search was conducted on pubmed 
web of science embase google scholar and the cochrane library until the end of april . all authors independently extracted 
all necessary data using excel spreadsheet form . only published articles with fully accessible data on pregnant women infected 
with sarscov marscov and sarscov2 were included . data on clinical manifestations maternal and perinatal outcomes were 
extracted and analyzed . result out of 879 articles reviewed 39 studies involving 1316 pregnant women were included . the most 
common clinical features were fever cough and myalgia with prevalence ranging from 30 to 97 while lymphocytopenia and 
creactive protein were the most common abnormal laboratory findings 55100 . pneumonia was the most diagnosed clinical 
symptom of covid19 and noncovid19 infection with prevalence ranged from 71 to 89 . bilateral pneumonia 57 and groundglass 
opacity 65 were the most common ct imaging reported . the most common treatment options used were hydroxychloroquine 79  
ribavirin 65 and oxygen therapy 78 . regarding maternal outcome the rate of preterm birth  37 weeks of gestation was 
14 preeclampsia 5 miscarriage 14 preterm premature rupture of membranes 9 and fetal growth restriction 2 . 
from the total coronavirus infected pregnant women 56 delivered by cesarean 31 admitted to icu while 2 . were died . 
among the perinatal outcomes fetal distress rated 26 neonatal asphyxia rated 1 . only 1 of neonates had apgar score 
7 at 5 min . neonate admitted to icu was rated 11 while the rate of perinatal death was 2 . in the current review none 
of the studies reported transmission of cov from the mother to the fetus in utero during the study period . conclusion coronavirus 
infection is more likely to affect pregnant women . respiratory infectious diseases have demonstrated an increased risk of adverse 
maternal obstetrical complications than the general population due to physiological changes occurred during pregnancy . none of 
the studies reported transmission of cov from the mother to the fetus in utero which may be due to a very low expression of 
angiotensinconverting enzyme2 in early maternalfetal interface cells .